---
layout: post
title: Weekly journal (01/25)
date: 2025-01-24 00:00:00
description:
tags: 
categories: 
featured: false
related_posts: true
giscus_comments: true
thumbnail:
images:
  compare: true
  slider: true
---

<p style="margin-bottom:0.5cm;"></p>

### <b>First of a kind</b>

This is the first weekly journal post. I intend to organize in one place all of the accomplishments and tasks performed in every week. This will allow me to better visualize all aspects of my life and, hopefully, it converging to what I aspire it to become. 

<p style="margin-bottom:1cm;"></p>

### <b>Accomplishments</b>

##### Sunday
- Grocery shopping
- Cheat sheet for *Architecture and Environment of Space*
- Consistent run between ISAE Campus and bridge

##### Monday 
- *Architecture and Environment of Space* exam
- *Introduction to Systems Engineering* Rhapsody drone system design completion 

##### Tuesday
- Last *Electromagnetism applied to Avionics* theoretical class
- Achieved iron map in *chess.com* puzzles

##### Wednesday
- *Information Engineering* presentation on "Cryptography : If you look more closely...​"
- Start of Airworthiness course
- SupaeroMoon Communications & Ground Segment Group meeting

##### Thursday
- Last *Flight Dynamics* theoretical class
- *Applied Mathematics* exam
- SupaeroMoon general meeting

##### Friday
- Last *Information Engineering* theoretical class
- *French* Exam

##### Saturday
- Room cleaning & organization
- Bowling play with friends (anniversary party) + Dinner at indian restaurant

<p style="margin-bottom:1cm;"></p>

### <b>Drawbacks</b>
- Wrong version of Ubuntu installed for compatibility with ROS2. I installed Ubuntu 24.04 LTS in an external SSD as a solution to my recurring problem with slow virtual machines and incompatibilities between Window's WSL and some Linux Kernel properties. For ROS2, there is still no available version which runs in this most recent OS. I will have to delete all SSD partitions and downgrade to Ubuntu 22.04 LTS.

- No weightlifting. Stressful week with exams and bad time management led me to sacrifice one of my top priorities.

<p style="margin-bottom:1cm;"></p>

### <b>Priorities</b>

##### Top priorities
- Master's degree    
- Exercise routine (goal: 2 days running + 3 days weightlifting)   
- Partner            
- Family             
- Friends            
- Duolingo (french)  
- Book               

##### Second priorities
- Chess             
- SupaeroMoon        
- Coursera           
- Website            

##### Occasional but still important
- LinkedIn           
- Budgeting          

##### Not important but good for free-time
- Khan academy       
- W3schools          
- Tryhackme       
- *Some video-games*   

##### On the list for candidate activities
- Hack the box       

<p style="margin-bottom:1cm;"></p>

### <b>Week Summary</b>

Overall, this wasn't a bad week, besides the weak exercise routine. Healthy/moderate food and decent sleep routine, with some possible improvements. A major highlight was keeping the room mildly organized and clean despite all the stressful events.

### <b>Next week</b>

##### Sunday
- Cheat Sheet for *Introduction to Systems Engineering*
- Groceries

##### Monday 
- *Introduction to Systems Engineering* exam (1:30h)
- Human Factors theoretical class (2:15h)
- Human Factors theoretical/practical class (1:00h)
- Run (bridge)

##### Tuesday
- Electromagnetism applied to Avionics practical class (1:00h)
- Check event in the *Hall d'accueil ISAE-SUPAERO*
- Human Factors theoretical class (2:15h)
- Human Factors theoretical/practical class (1:00h)

##### Wednesday
- *Electromagnetism Applied to Avionics* exam
- Review *Electromagnetism Applied to Avionics* practical classes
- Install Ubuntu 22.04 LTS in external SSD
- SupaeroMoon Communications and Ground Segment Group meeting
- Run (bridge)

##### Thursday
- Human Factors theoretical class (1:00h)
- Review *Flight Dynamics* practical classes
- ISAE-SUPAERO Chess tournament
- Gym (pull)

##### Friday
- Human Factors theoretical class (2:30h)
- French as a Foreign Language (2:30h)
- Gym (leg)

##### Saturday
- Groceries
- Do *Electromagnetism Applied to Avionics* old exams (3)
- Do *Flight Dynamics* old exam (1)
- Run (bridge)

_Lourenço_